US693084: QoQ: Fast lane processing (#45)
WorkerFramework/worker-message-prioritization: worker-message-prioritization-distribution-container/fast-lane-processing.md

# Fast lane processing 

## Altering staging queue weight
When CAF_CONSUMPTION_TARGET_CALCULATOR_MODE is set to 'FastLane' the ability exists to 
increase or decrease the weight of certain staging queues. Doing this will give these 
staging queues more or less capacity of the target queue depending on the weight.

### Method of weighting
Staging queues hold messages waiting to be moved onto their target queue for processing. 
Target queues have a set length, therefore only have a certain capacity to hold messages. 
Weighting allows queues to be set so that they are given more or less of this available capacity and therefore will
get processed quicker or slower than the other staging queues.

How the staging queue capacity is calculated: 

> $$ Target \ queue \ capacity \ given \ to \ staging \ queue  = {{Total \ target \ queue \ capacity \over Sum \ of \ weights \ of \ all 

Reviewer: Good use of MathML

\ staging \ queues} * Weight \ of \ staging \ queue.} $$

### Format to follow when setting staging queue weights: 

> * The environment variable tag **must** begin with CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT. If there is more than one weight to be set, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The environment variable name **must** begin with CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT. If there is more than one staging queue regular expression and weight to be set, 
```

> the tag can be preceded with incrementing numbers 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the environment variable name can be appended with _ and incrementing numbers 
```

eg: CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT, CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_1, CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_2 and so on. 

> * Inside this tag must contain a string of the regex to match the staging queue, followed by a comma, followed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The value of this environment variable must contain a string of the regex to match the staging queue, followed by a comma, followed
```

Remember, the user will not be configuring these patterns using maven and xml.

> by an integer that is 0 or larger. Note:

Reviewer: integer or double?

  * There **cannot be any spaces** in the entire string 
  * The number following the comma (aka the weight) **cannot be negative**
  * **Decimal numbers are allowed** in the form of 0.5 or .5
  * There cannot be a zero preceding non-decimal weight values eg: 04, or 020

> * If there are multiple matches on a staging queues, the weight will be set to the longest matching string. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If multiple regular expressions match a single staging queue name, the pattern that matches the most text from the staging queue name will have it's associated weight assigned to the staging queue. 
```

> For example if `"tenant1"` is set to a weight of 3, and `"enrichment-workflow"` is set to a weight of 10. 

Reviewer: Explain that the user can use regular expression syntax to match more of the string to increase the specificity of a CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT entry.

For your example, how could they make all tenant1's staging queues have a weight of  20, without changing the expression for enrichment-workflow?

Then the staging queue `"dataprocessing-classification-in»/tenant1/enrichment-workflow"` will be given a weight
of 10. 
* In the case of 2 matches on a staging queue with equal length string matches, the weight will be set to the 
higher weight value. 

> * Setting a weight above 1 will give a staging queue more target queue capacity, and setting below 1 will give less.

Reviewer: This is not guaranteed, reword to

A staging queue with a weight of 2 will have twice the amount of messages moved to a target queue than a staging queue with a weighting of 1.

Reviewer: Explain what how a weight of 0 would behave

For staging queues that do not have their weight altered, weight will default to 1.

### Examples of suitable tags 

> * <CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT>enrichment\-workflow$,10</CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT> 

Reviewer: Explain each example

> * <CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_1>tenant1,0</CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_1>

Reviewer: Let's update the patterns to avoid accidental overlaps, leading slash where appropriate, and make the tenant prioritisation example look something like this ".*»/tenant1/.*$"

  precedence over altering of workflow weight. This allows certain tenants to be given more or less target queue capacity for quicker 
  or slower processing when required. Hence, why these strings should be more specific. 
* The more of the staging queue string matched by the regex pattern, the more specific the weight adjustment will be. 
* In the case of 2 matches on a staging queue with equal length string matches, the weight will be set to the 
  higher weight value.
* A staging queue with a weight of 2 will have twice the amount of messages moved to a target queue than a staging queue with 
  weighting of 1. Alternately a staging queue with weight 0.5 will have half the amount of messages moved to a target queue than a 
  staging queue with weighting of 1. 
* Setting the weight to 0 will stop the movement of any messages off staging queues which match the regex in the environment variable. 
  The messages will not get lost, but will be held on the staging queues until that weight changes back to a positive double, at which 
  point the messages will begin to move again and get processed as normal. 

> ### Examples of suitable tags 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT Examples
```

  * `<CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT>enrichment\-workflow$,10</CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT>`
* Regex to match tenant1 staging queues for dataprocessing-classification-in, followed by weight of 0 with no spaces.
  * `<CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_1>dataprocessing-classification-in»/tenant1,0</CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_1>`
* Regex to match tenant2 staging queues for bulk-indexer-in, followed by weight of 3 with no spaces.
  * `<CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_2>bulk-indexer-in»/tenant2,3</CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_2>`
* Regex to match tenant3 staging queues for dataprocessing-langdetect-in, followed by weight of 7 with no spaces.
  * `<CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_3>dataprocessing-langdetect-in»/tenant2,7</CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_3>`
* Regex to match repository-initialization-workflow$ at the end of a staging queue string, followed by weight of 0.5 with no spaces.
  * `<CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_4>repository-initialization-workflow$,0.5</CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_4>`
* Regex to match tenant3 staging queues for bulk-indexer-in, followed by weight of .5 with no spaces.
  * `<CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_5>bulk-indexer-in»/tenant3,.5</CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT_5>`

> ### Examples of tags that will throw an error

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Invalid CAF_ADJUST_QUEUE_WEIGHT Examples
```
